BULAWAYO - Premier soccer league debutants Bulawayo Chiefs have kept faith in core of the squad that won them promotion into the top flight league. They were only forced to make changes in the technical department where they roped in former Black Mambas women soccer team’s coach Guthrie Chipuka to be the head coach since their coach Thulani Sibanda does not possess the requisite Caf A coaching licence which enables one to coach a premiership team in Zimbabwe. Sibanda was reportedly asked by the authorities at the club to choose a coach of his choice who is a holder of a Caf A Licence and he opted for Chipuka, who just like him is an attested member of the Zimbabwe Republic Police. Chiefs only managed to sign three players that were playing in the premiership; Last Sithole whom they had loaned to FC Platinum, Shadreck Nyahwa who was with Bantu Rovers and Shadreck Mandizadza who was loaned to ZPC Kariba.   Sibanda said preparations have been going on well and they are ready to compete. “Our pre-season has been going on so well. We have managed to play a number of friendly matches. It’s not going to be easy in the premier league but honestly we have a balanced team and we are ready to compete,” Sibanda told the Daily News. “We are not going to do any miracles in football; we are at the same level with all the other teams in the league, all we need to do is focus on playing and collecting points. We have players that have played in the top league before and they know what it means to rub shoulders with the big boys.” Sibanda said their target is to avoid relegation in their maiden season. “Our target this season is to maintain our status in the league and that can be achieved,” he said. Chiefs have in their ranks their star player Perfect Chikwende, last year’s Southern Region Division One soccer star of the year Arthur Musiiwa, Moses Majika and Graciuos Mleya who have both played in the premiership before. They also have Kundishora Chakanyuka, Polite Moyo, Kelvin Nyoni and Malvin Mkholo. The Bulawayo side will use Luveve Stadium as their home ground after their initial choice Ross Camp was declared not fit to host premiership matches. (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});