HARARE - Harare City coach Mark Harrison is expecting a warm reception from CAPS United fans when the two teams square off in their 2018 Castle Premiership season opener at the National Sports Stadium on Sunday. Harrison was in charge of CAPS in 2015 and left a lasting impression during a short but turbulent stint before departing for Botswana, where he went on to lift the league title with Township Rollers that same year. The Briton, a holder of Uefa A, Caf A and Diploma in Football Management returned to Zimbabwe after he was appointed as Harare City technical director last season before being tasked to lead the team this year following the sacking of Philani Ncube. Ncube was shown the exit door after the team was relegated at the end of last season only to be thrown a lifeline after How Mine, who went through difficult financial challenges last season, gave up their franchise.   And as he prepares to face CAPS for the first time since he left the club, Harrison, a 56-year-old former Mpumalanga Black Aces, African Warriors, Chippa United, Bay Stars and Golden Arrows gaffer expects a welcoming reception from Makepekepe fans. “I think revenge doesn’t take place in football because if you carry that with you there will be a problem. “It can affect your judgment, affect the way you approach things. So, I don’t carry that with me,” Harrison said. “Apart from the financial issues, I enjoyed working with the players. I had a good bond with the players, they enjoyed working with me and some of them I think they are still there and I look forward to see them in Sunday’s game. “I had a great relationship with the supporters as well and I will greet them on Sunday as well and hopefully they respond to me as much as I want to respond to them.
	“They were good, they supported us through thick and thin — so on my side everything is good.” On their game Harrison said: “It’s quite ironic that my first game back in Zimbabwe as a coach is against CAPS. So I am looking forward to it. “We are under no pressure, just two weeks ago we were a division one team, we are back in the Premier League now and we need to readjust to that idea. “We have been working towards kickoff on Sunday but there is no really pressure. I think pressure is actually on CAPS as they are expected to win that game. “They have got a lot of experience in their team and would be expecting to win it. “So we are just going to go there and enjoy ourselves. We gonna try and play some good brand of football and see what comes up.” (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});