HARARE - President Emmerson Mnangagwa visited a tractor and parts plant on Tuesday to highlight the role of manufacturing in reviving the economy, and followed up on his State of the nation message of strengthening the economy through industrialisation. Case IH distributor Agricon Equipment Zimbabwe received Mnangagwa at its headquarters in Harare for a visit of its facilities. The head of State was welcomed by Faizul Materia, chief executive officer and Jason Smith, chief operating officer, who presented the full range of innovative solutions and services Agricon provides farmers with the backing of Case IH, global leader in agricultural equipment. The facilities at Agricon headquarters, which cover approximately 10 000 square metres, include the management and sales offices, the call centre, the assembly plant, and the service centre with its workshops, spare parts warehouse and training area for salespeople, technicians and customer operators. During the visit Materia and Smith explained to president Mnangagwa the key features of some of the Case IH machines that are most popular in Zimbabwe, highlighting how they can help farmers improve their productivity. The viewed machines included Case IH tractors ranging from the best-selling utility JXT and versatile Farmall A, to the multi-purpose Puma; Axial-Flow®140 series combines featuring Case IH’s advanced single rotor technology and designed for mid-sized arable operations; and Nutri-tillers to manage crop residue, enhance soil condition and improve fertiliser placement for maximum nutrient efficiency. At the end of the 90-minute visit, Mnangagwa pronounced himself impressed with the agricultural technology and innovation solutions offered by Agricon. Smith said: “It was important for His Excellency the President to see what services and support are available in Zimbabwe for the agricultural industry. “At Agricon we take pride in supporting this sector with affordable machinery and, most importantly, efficient and professional backup and service. “This is key to making agriculture in Zimbabwe more productive. “We are proud to be a part of rebuilding the country.” (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});