HARARE - There are fears that CAPS United skipper Hardlife Zvirekwi’s career could be over after he was involved in a freak car accident in the early hours of yesterday in Harare. Initial reports suggested that Zvirekwi, whose Toyota Belta crashed along Samora Machel Avenue, fractured his left arm while preventing potentially serious injuries. He is admitted at Parirenyatwa Group of Hospitals where he was scheduled to undergo a surgery yesterday. The 2016 Soccer Star of the Year reportedly lost control of his vehicle after failing to negotiate a curve, with the vehicle veering off the road. It was unclear yesterday where Zvirekwi was travelling from but unconfirmed reports suggested the defender was coming from a friend’s birthday party at Motor Action Sports Club and was on his way home. CAPS United chief executive Cuthbert Chitima said: “Yes, I can confirm he (Zvirekwi) was involved in car accident and as a club we are standing by him. This is the time he needs us most. (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); “But for now, I don’t have much details on what really transpired exactly. I went to see him at the hospital but I could not see him as they were still attending to him. The details are still very sketchy but will definitely avail them as soon I gather the correct information.” Friends, teammates and colleagues were quick to wish Zvirekwi a speedy recovery. “So sad my brother but don’t worry such is life. You need to be strong and accept it and remember everything happens for a reason. Maybe God has a better plan for you. It might be end of your career but not end of the world. Heartbroken,” former CAPS United defender Ronald Pfumbidzai who is now plying his trade at Bloemfontein Celtic in South Africa tweeted. Dynamos defender Obey Mwerahari wrote on his Facebook wall: “Get well soon Hardlife Zvirekwi...we are with you in our prayers.” The development is with no doubt a huge blow to the Green Machine, who are busy preparing for their 2018 Castle Lager Premiership season opener against Harare City on Sunday at the National Sports Stadium. Zvirekwi is among some of the senior players at Makepekepe, who are expected to play a leading role in the team’s quest for the championship this season. Makepekepe have already made a statement of intent by adding some talented and experienced players to their squad in the form of Denver Mukamba, Milton Ncube, Dennis Dauda, Praise Tonha and Brian Muzondiwa among others.  