HARARE - A fast-rising gospel music quartet — whose latest album has been like a fresh breeze on the gospel music scene — believe their third offering will not only set them apart but will inspire. Aptly named the Breeze, the group’s album has been making tailwinds with on local radio stations. The Breeze, composed of Melody “Mels” Mandisodza Muvuti, Blessing “Bee” Madzanira”, Phoebe “Phoebs” Mberi Mayisiri and Nyaradzo “Tina” Maphosa, has so far released two albums namely Hosanna (Acapella) in 2014 and A Breeze Story launched in December 2017. “The name Breeze is inspired by the entry of God’s Spirit in a tabernacle made by man. His Spirit adds rejuvenation and sanctity to the tabernacle in a way best described as a refreshing breeze entering the tired, beaten life,” said band representative Maphosa. “Breeze is spreading the gospel of Jesus Christ in its generation, the message of preparedness for His kingdom, keeping hope in Him secure through the varied styles of songs. “Breeze is God’s craftsmanship, His artistry. It endeavours to display His goodness and grace to bless and everyone who will receive Him.   “Breeze has a passion to stand up for the vulnerable and abused, a redemptive force in this time and a circle of influence in the world,” Maphosa added. “A big part of the Breeze mission is keeping as close to nature as possible, mind, body and soul. “Breeze believes in wholesome living; taking care of one’s environment, eating plant-based foods, cosmetic uses that include natural oils and products that enhance natural beauty, natural hair and meditating upon God’s Word. “Breeze also has special concern for the welfare of others, lifestyle issues, making visible the disenfranchised groups of people, especially the girl child.” Breeze also does philathropic work as a fundraiser for the Multi-Help Trust, which takes care of orphans and widows. The group managed to mobilise funds for the Multi-Help Trust in Zimbabwe and on its tour in the United Kingdom. “Education for all is at the heart of Breeze,” said Maphosa. Following its first launch on March 3 on local radio, the ensemble has lined up a gig in Bulawayo on March 17, 2018 before honouring their invitation as the guest group at the Solusi University 2018 graduation on March 18. The group is also expected to perform in South Africa. “Breeze wishes to encourage girls, women and anyone who has a dream to follow it with a passion. No matter how long it takes. All things are possible with God,” Maphosa said. (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});