HARARE - Rising all-female ensemble, Vedu, are set to ignite the sleepy town of Norton when they play at Pakare Paye Arts Centre to celebrate Faith Mtukudzi’s birthday on Friday next week. Speaking on the sidelines of an Andy Muridzo show, which they curtain-raised at Jazz 24/7 on Wednesday, the group’s spokesperson and lead vocalist Trish Sharara said all is set for the day and they are promising fireworks. “On the 16th of this month, we are performing at Pakare Paye Arts Centre and it’s a birthday bash for our big sister Faith Mtukudzi. “We will be performing together with Guspy and Andy Muridzo, among other artists,” said Trish. The all-female music group gave a polished performance, serenading fans with a variety of yesteryear songs from other artistes as well as their own compositions during the mid-week show.   Playing Chii Chanetsa Baba from the late Sam Mtukudzi’s compilation, the group kept revellers on their feet and the sight of a lady playing drums made it a spectacle. Their hit composition, Vedu Vemagitare, had all the ingredients of a chart-topper as it cemented their pedigree as rich composers. “We are yet to record an album though we have our own songs which we play at shows. “But something is in the making and very soon we will be in the studio to give the country our first baby,” said Trish. When asked about the origins of the name Vedu, the vocalist said the group started without a name. “We started without a name and on our first performance the Master of Ceremonies referred to us as band revasikana vedu our girls) as in vedu vekuchikoro (our girls from school), so we decided to go with Vedu.” The group is made up of Pamela Dzvinamurungu (vocals), Trish (lead vocals), Anesu Sabeta (keyboards), Melody Mtembo (drummer) and Rizwana Gwini (bass guitar). “We draw our inspiration from other female artistes like Zahara, Lira, Edith WeUtonga and others. But obviously, Oliver Mtukudzi is our mentor,” added Trish. Currently, all members of the group are doing lessons at the Crossroads Music Academy in central Harare. (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});