HARARE - Stanbic Bank Zimbabwe women employees have taken the International Women’s Day celebrations as an opportunity to support disadvantaged women and girls in rural areas through the provision of sanitary products. “We have requested all the ladies of Stanbic Bank Zimbabwe to bring in a packet (or a few packets) of sanitary pads, cotton wool or maternity pads during the week March 5 – 9, 2018,” the bank’s head of human capital Nyasha Mutsai said. “We will centralise the Harare office and branch donations, but decentralise the rest of the out of Harare branch donations to allow all the communities in which we are present to benefit from this initiative,” she said. Research has shown that many women and girls in the rural communities are facing challenges when it comes to acquiring products for menstrual hygiene to the extent that they are forced to resort to using unhygienic material.   “We are also concerned when we hear of women and girls using unhygienic and hazardous options because cervical cancer has become a painful reality which may be triggered by such. “In line with this year’s theme “PressForProgress”, we have noted that this may be a difficult call for our female counterparts in rural settings due to the lack of confidence caused by lack of proper sanitary wear during one of their most uncomfortable times. “We have made it our call to reach out to the number of women we can and make a difference in their lives,” Mutsai said. Stanbic Bank has 20 branches countrywide and three private banking suites and sanitary products are being collected from all of them during this week for donations. To compliment the women’s efforts “the bank will assist us by providing the same number of products we would have collected and we will have a significant volume for donation. “Our aim is to include these in this global movement and encourage them to press for progress with confidence” Mutsai added. The bankers wore pink golf shirts as part of their celebrations. (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});  