HARARE - Young Mufaro Kabasa underlined her growing status as one of the hottest emerging female riders on the local scene when she surpassed expectations in the Motocross Nationals held at the Donnybrook Park over the weekend. The Groombridge Primary School, Grade Four pupil took part in the 50cc class and was largely expected to be swept away by her opponents given she was elevated from the Pew Wee (beginners) class just recently. However, Kabasa who has only been in the game for the past eight months, she showed no sign of inferiority complex against her more illustrious male counterparts to settle for seventh place in her debut appearance. It was certainly a fitting achievement for the eight-year old who was racing at the Motocross Nationals only for the second time in her short but promising career to earn praises from many neutrals, who are already tipping her to become the next big thing after Tanya Muzinda. Mufaro’s father Kudakwashe feels his daughter is in the right direction.   “I was really impressed by her overall performance and the way he handled her bike because it was the first time that she was riding in the 50cc,” Kudakwashe told to the Daily News. “I think she is destined for a bright future. She only needs to keep on working hard otherwise her progress is very encouraging.” In the 65cc class, young Emmanuel Bako made his intentions of winning this year’s championship clear by finishing first ahead of Jordan Dewdney and Emile Croisette, who settled for second and third place respectively. Bako, a Grade Six pupil at Heritage School, is showing no signs of slowing down from last year in which he was named the second-best rider in the 65cc class. Bako’s father Brighton was delighted with his son’s performance and is tipping him to win everything on offer this year. “He has started the year well. He is doing very well. “He is mentally and physically strong enough to win all championships,” Brighton told the Daily News. Daiyaan Manuel came first in the 85cc pushing Bako to second place while Tanya Muzinda came third. In 125cc Tristan Grainger emerged winner beating David Evans, who settled for second place while Reagan Evans came third. Ash Thixton continued with his dominance in the MX2 after coming first while Tafadzwa Mawarire settled for second place with Jacques DuPlessis finishing third. (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});