HARARE - Deputy Finance minister Terence Mukupe is facing jail after SeedCo Zimbabwe (Private) Limited (SeedCo) filed summons for his civil imprisonment for failing to pay $15 000 for seed supplied to him in December 2013. The seed company filed the summons on Thursday last week, demanding that Mukupe appear before the court on a date yet to be advised. He was asked to show cause why he must not be imprisoned for failure to pay the owed amount. “You are required to pay this sum by virtue of judgment obtained against you in the High Court at Harare on January 13, 2016 under which you were ordered to pay the sum of $15 010, 32 and interest thereon at the rate of 18 percent per annum from August 27, 2015 to date of payment in full and costs of suit on a legal practitioner client scale as well as collection commission in terms of the Law Society of Zimbabwe by-laws,” the summons for civil imprisonment reads. According to the summons, Mukupe was also asked to bring evidence of his financial position, which includes income from wages, salary, other earnings and any other income from any other source. “Unless you pay the plaintiff the sum specified…,or unless the plaintiff accepts an offer of settlement which you have made to him, you must appear before the High Court on the date and at the time specified… “If you do not do so, a writ of personal attachment may be issued against you and you may be committed to prison,” the summons further said. Litigation against Mukupe emerged after he was supplied with seed by SeedCo on December 31, 2013 and was supposed to pay for the products upon receipt of the goods. “In the event of default, the defendant was to pay interest at the rate of 18 percent per annum on the cost of the goods from the date of demand to date of payment in full. “Demand having been made, defendant has failed or neglected to pay any part of the amount outstanding,” the court heard. Mukupe did not respond to the application, resulting in the court handing down a default judgment. This was after SeedCo applied for the default judgment, claiming Mukupe had failed to enter an appearance to defend at the prescribed time. (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});