11:30 - Zanu PF 2018 primaries: Slow start at many constituencies. Daily News' news editor Gift Phiri arrested and charged with criminal trespass after taking pictures of senior police officers briefing Zanu PF polling agents at Zvishavane police station. Paid $20 fine.
	
	Ballots have not been delivered at most constituencies.
	
	12:32 - Voters wait for ballot papers at Odzi Primary School in Manicaland.
	
	
	
	12:35: Seke North voters wait for ballots.
	
	
	
	13:03 - Voters waiting for ballots in Chitungwiza.
	
	
	
	13:11 - Voting has started in Chitungwiza, but some voters are complain that they cannot see their names on the voters' roll.
	
	13:12 - Polling materials delivered in Chegutu district. Voting to start at 14:00.
	
	13:51 - Murewa West voters waiting for ballots.
	
	
	
	
	14:15 - Voters wait for ballot papers at Muzondiwa shops Zvishavane-Chauke Ward 3.
	
	
	
	14:43 - Still no ballots or voting officials at Murewa Centre.
	
	
	
	15:01 - Scores of voters stranded in Seke. Ballots yet to arrive at voting centres.
	
	
	
	15:36 - Chaos at Zvishavane police station, Zvishavane-Ngezi National Assembly candidates Lewis Matutu, John Holder, Kefas Maunganidze shouting at each other, accusing each other of attempting to rig election. Polling about to start at most polling stations.
	
	16:10 - Frustrated voters in Murewa North go back home following delayed ballots.
	
	
	
	16:33 - Voting could not be completed in Mashonaland West province due to a delay in the delivery of voting material. In Chinhoyi, the provincial capital, only one ward had started voting while there was no activity at all in other wards although the ballot materials have already arrived at various places.
	
	Most of the voters started  returning to their respective places around 3pm when it became apparent that polling was not going to take place. Complaints are that some of the candidates' names are missing from the ballot papers.
	
	Voting was also yet to start in Kadoma and Chegutu as of lunchtime while skirmishes took place in Hurungwe district, with one of the candidates, only identified as Chinjai, reportedly collapsing after Mary Mliswa, sister to Norton independent legislator Temba, allegedly threatened to block her candidature.
	
	Zanu PF Mashonaland West deputy provincial chairman Keith Guzah slammed the party's comissariat department for poor logistical arrangements.
	
	"Some people are going back to their homes. The comissariat department could have done a better job than this. Many people will not be voting and this is very sad," he said.
	
	16:58 - Mberengwa North elections have been postponed to tomorrow.
	
	There was chaos at Chiedza Hall in Zvishavane after an attempt to have people without voter slips cast a ballot, mainly VaPostori.