HARARE - For close to three seasons now, Raphael Manuvire turned down the overtures of Dynamos’ advances, who had been trying so hard to bring him to their dressing room. DeMbare have always linked with the former Douglas Warriors and Mwana Africa playmaker for the last two seasons but the move never materialised. The closest Manuvire came to join Dynamos was in 2016 following a fallout with Moses Chunga while he was still turning out for Harare City.   Manuvire went on strike and refused to play for the Sunshine Boys until he received his clearance while DeMbare were reportedly waiting to pounce on him. However, Chunga and the midfielder ironed out their differences which meant he returned to the playing field with the Sunshine Boys for the rest of the 2016 season. At the start of last season, Munivire left Harare City to re-join ZPC Kariba, at a time he was reported to be close be joining DeMbare. In the end, it took Warriors head coach Sunday “Mhofu” Chidzambwa, to convince Manuvire to return to Harare this time to join the Glamour Boys. Ironically, the midfielder had agreed looked set to be reunited with Taurai Mangwiro, who had signed him at Harare City, and a deal in principal to join Triangle had been agreed and what was only left was for him to sign the contract. The offer from the Sugar Sugar Boys was an enticing but the overtures of the Harare giants made him perform a summersault in a decision that is said to have left the Triangle hierarchy perplexed. “I’m really happy to have finally signed for Dynamos. I’m ready to give my best at the country’s biggest club — it’s an honour,” Manuvire told the Daily News. “I don’t think it could have materialised without the intervention of Mhofu. He is the one who advised me to sign for Dynamos because it was certain I was going to Triangle. So Mhofu played a huge role in helping me make the decision to come here.” Manuvire and Chidzambwa worked together at ZPC Kariba last season. The midfielder cherishes the working relationship he enjoyed with Chidzambwa at Nyamhunga Stadium which he says contributed to his decision to join the Glamour Boys. “I have worked with Mhofu and learnt a lot of things from him. To me he is a father figure and when I listened to his advice it was very easy for me to make a decision,” Manuvire said. “It’s not all about money but other interests as well in as far as one’s career is concerned. It was always my dream to one day play for Dynamos and I am delighted and looking forward to put the blue and white shirt.” A lot will be on Manuvire’s shoulders when the 2018 season commences as DeMbare will be hoping to improve on their second place finish last season. “It’s a great opportunity for me so I hope to grow as a player. I would rather play than talk about it,” the former Harare City midfielder said. Dynamos followers will now be hoping 29-year-old will help them push for the league title. Manuvire will be joining his new teammates next week after being excused this week from training to allow him to finalise his relocation from Kariba to Harare. (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});