MUTARE - Surrey Abattoirs are the winners of the inaugural Zifa Eastern Region Division One League Diamond Super Cup after edging Tenax 2-1 in an exciting duel at Sakubva Stadium on Sunday. Surrey and Tenax had dumped Mucheke Pirates and Buffaloes respectively by identical 3-2 score lines in the semi-finals on Saturday.
	The tournament is the sponsored by the Zimbabwe Consolidated Diamond Company (ZCDC) and features teams from the Manicaland area where the Chiadzwa diamond fields are located. Surrey walked away $3 000 richer with Tenax pocketing $1 500. All four teams were, however, also given uniforms and footballs. Surrey coach Charles Mutero said the win sets them up for an exciting season as the triumph demonstrated the effort they have been putting in creating a competitive team. (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); “We are excited with our performance. We had a good tournament and it will motivate us to keep performing at the highest level as we go into the 2018 season,” Mutero said. The former Black Rhinos coach said his charges will be pushing for promotion into the top flight when the season commences.
	“We will be obviously playing for the championship and my youngsters have proven that they can deliver on the big stage so I have no doubt about either their confidence or strength of character,” he said. Tenax gaffer Blessing Mudombi conceded that their defensive frailties cost them the final. “We made too many mistakes and we lost defensively,” Mudombi said. The tournament, which will run annually, was launched last week and was accompanied by glitzy Air Force of Zimbabwe helicopter display and paratroopers. Unveiling the cup last week, ZCDC chief operating officer, Rob De Preto said this was part of their community social responsibility. “We will continue to implement a number of social responsibility programmes to empower local people,” De Preto said. He said they were supporting growth of soccer in line with government policy to nurture talent at grassroots level. “Soccer transcends colour, gender and ethnics barriers. “Soccer brings people together and even poorest nations forget their worries to cheer their nations,” he said. De Preto said players should use the opportunity to market themselves to bigger leagues. “Players should take the opportunity to market yourself beyond division one soccer,” he said. Zifa Eastern Region vice chairperson Cyril Mukewa said sponsorship was a missing link in the development of football in the region and hoped that other corporates would also emulate ZCDC. “We are elated by this development and we hope that this sponsorship will continue… we also hope that other companies will also do the same for the development of the sport,” Mukewa said.  