HARARE - Zambian moneybags Buildcon Football Club have emerged as new contenders in the race to sign talented midfielder Devon Chafa, the Daily News can reveal. Chafa is currently a free agent following the expiry of his contract with CAPS United last year and has been strongly linked with a move to his former club Dynamos with Makepekepe showing less commitment to retain the Soccer Star of the Year finalist. And yesterday Buildcon, which has a huge contingent of foreign players from across the continent including Zimbabwean trio of defender Partson Jaure, midfielder Nqobizitha Masuku and goalkeeper Tatenda Mkuruva became the latest team to show interest in the player. The highly-rated midfielder has been training with the Green Machine following his return from a two-week trial stint in Egypt pending negotiations for a new deal. But yesterday his manager Gibson Mahachi confirmed to the Daily News that Buildcon have joined the race. (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); “Buildcon have shown interest in the player but for now there is nothing concrete. Negotiations should start soon,” Mahachi said. Buildcon, who recently appointed Italian coach Arena Gulgleimo to take over from Spaniard Hicham Jedrane, who led the ambitious side to a ninth place finish last season has since set sights on winning the 2018 Zambian Super league. Gulgleimo is a vastly experienced coach on the continent having spent 13 years in charge of clubs in Benin and Burkina Faso where he won titles. Chafa, until yesterday, has been strongly linked with a return to the Glamour Boys as efforts for a renewal at Makepekepe appeared to have hit the brick wall. Sources close to the goings on insists a deal with DeMbare has already been agreed but have since put on hold due to Buildcon interests. The Glamour Boys have been active during this transfer window bringing in a number of new players who include Raphael Manuvire, Jimmy Tigere, Blessing Moyo, James Marufu and Marvelous Mukumba among others. Manuvire joined DeMbare from ZPC Kariba while Tigere joined from Harare City, who will be playing in the Zifa Northern Region Division One League this season after they were relegated on the last day of the 2017 season. Moyo left Dynamos for Harare City in January 2016, before crossing the border to join South Africa’s Absa Premiership side Maritzburg but returned back home after the termination of his contract through mutual consent. Marufu, who was touted as one of the bright prospects of his generation especially during his days with FC Platinum has seen his career falter in recent time but has now penned a two-year deal with DeMbare. The Glamour Boys are scheduled for a one-week training camp in Nyanga after sealing a deal with the Zimbabwe National Parks and Wildlife Management Authority (ZimParks) last week. DeMbare have over the years held their pre-season training in the capital due to limited financial resources before ZimParks decided to chip in this year by offering their recreational facility in Nyanga.  