HARARE - Things are looking up for United Kingdom-based designer Yvonne Gambe Ndava known in the fashion circles as “Yvonne Yvette” who has been nominated for several awards this year including the International Runway Achievers and Recognition Awards (Irara). The awards which cover social media, pageantry, entertainment, fashion and community categories ceremony will be held on March 24 at the Hilton Hotel, Dublin Airport, United Kingdom. Yvonne Yvette was nominated for female fashion designer of the year award. “Irara are a set of carefully selected awards given annually to recognise excellence in pageantry, entertainment, fashion, and community. The various category winners are presented with an Irara trophy award,” the Irara website stated. Yvonne Yvette was also selected for the American Black and Gifted Awards. She also announced the nomination on her page writing: “Proud moment alert. When God smiles at you, he gifts you and makes you prosper. I am delighted to announce my very first United States of America award nomination received this morning from The Black and Gifted Awards. Eish it still hasn't sunk in yet, I wasn't expecting this nomination let alone a nomination from the #US. God is ever so faithful.”   She was crowned the Best Fashion Designer in the North West of England in 2016 and has launched her 2017 Bow collection. The Zimbabwe-born designer, whose label is called Yvonne Yvette (YY), earlier told the Daily News that her collection was motivated by her desire to demonstrate that “elegance is not complicated.” The ambitious designer, who is based in an English town called Gerrards Cross attributes the uniqueness of her designs to her African origins and her European experiences. “I proclaim that the marvellous results of my work come from the pride I have of my life experiences, from growing up in the humble yet fashionable streets of Africa to living in bustling and trendy Europe in my adult life. “The exposure to the fashion aspects from both extremes of the world allows me to make a double impact on the fashion scene. In particular, it allows me to innovatively fuse African print fabrics with fabrics from all corners of the world to create world class designs,” she said. Though she takes pride in her African heritage, the award-winning designer wants her designs to appeal to all nationalities. “I still get clients from all walks of life. I have decided not to stick to African print-based designs alone because of the mixed nature of my clientele. “I get orders for prom dresses from teens, ball gown and wedding dress orders from ladies in a wide range of ages. My clientele is also international and multiracial,” she told the Daily News. (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});