BULAWAYO - After dislodging Chicken Inn in the semi-final of the ZNA Charity Shield, Highlanders are aiming their guns at rivals Dynamos in the final set for the National Sports Stadium in Harare tomorrow. Highlanders produced a five-star performance in the last 35 minutes of the rescheduled semi-final against Chicken Inn. The youthful Bosso outfit managed to come from behind and force a win against a more experienced Chicken Inn. Bosso manager Madinda Ndlovu believes the match will be competitive and a motivation for his players to prove their worth in the team. “We want to win, we really want to win it. The cup competition has that vibe and that spirit of wanting to be a winner all the time. There is a bigger picture that we are embarking on as a club, which is bringing glory days back to the club,” Ndlovu told the Daily News yesterday. “The clash being Dynamos against Highlanders — the spark will be there, the vibe will be there and also the players will be self-motivated. Am not putting my players under any pressure, I will only ask them to do as they did against Chicken Inn. They must just showcase themselves. That’s the spirit that we want to put in them.
	Maybe it’s an opportunity for us to pocket our first silverware this year.”   Ndlovu believes they are still in the pre-season mode and they are still trying to come up with a team for 2018 season. “It’s a game that will give us an opportunity to assess some of the players that didn’t play in the semi-final. We are still just trying to put the pieces together.
	We want to see who is who and players should work hard so that they can get themselves matches throughout the season,” added Ndlovu. Highlanders are likely to parade former Hwange, Bantu Rovers and Bulawayo City striker Newman Sianchali as their new gunman. The coming in of Sianchali also brings with it experience and fire power up-front for the youthful Bosso outfit. They also have the likes of new revelation Nigel Makumbe, Adrian Silla, Ben Musaka and Godfrey Makaruse to create all sorts of problems for Dynamos in the midfield. Peter Mudhuwa and new captain Honest Moyo are expected to bring stability in defence with Ariel Sibanda expected to guard the goal posts. On the other hand, Dynamos will also work hard to collect their first silverware of the season. They managed to beat Caps United 1-0 in the other semi-final at the National Sports Stadium using mostly unheralded players after most of their senior players had gone on strike due to unpaid dues. With the senior players back at work, the match promises fireworks and like all cup games between the two teams it promises to be a nail-biting encounter. DeMbare coach Lloyd Mutasa chose his words carefully and expects a tough duel against their bitter rivals. “A Highlanders side is just as good as a CAPS United side. When you play a battle of Zimbabwe, it’s no easy feat and we are expecting a good game, we are expecting a battle. If you look at how we played against them last season in the first game we won it in the boardroom after the game had ended in one-all draw at Barbourfields,” Mutasa said. “We came here (Harare) we played out to a draw again, we even played those few friendlies with the other youngsters from Bosso as well and some of those games ended in stalemates as well. It’s going to be a tough game, a game that probably both institutions would like to come out victorious so it’s going to be a tough assignment but we hope as Dynamos we would always want to come out victorious.” (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});