HARARE - Zimbabwe cricket captain Graeme Cremer is miffed by the inconsistency being displayed by his side in the on-going ODI series against Afghanistan in the United Arab Emirates. On Tuesday, the locals lost the third ODI by six wickets after being bowled out for 154 runs in 34.3 overs which was  easily surpassed by the Asians as they reached 158-4 after. “Very disappointed, especially with the inconsistency with the bat, it was a good toss to win,” Cremer told the Daily News yesterday. “Most of the guys are training this afternoon, the bowlers will just be having meetings and hopefully tomorrow (today) we will be better.” Blowing hot and cold in their last leg of preparations for the ICC World Cup Qualifiers that Zimbabwe will host beginning on March 4, the team current trail 1-2 in the five match series after losing the opening match, won the second one convincingly and lost the third encounter heavily.   In this strange series, both teams scored identical scores in the first two matches beating each other in the reverse fixtures by the same margin before Afghanistan leapt in control of the series with a six-wicket win in the third ODI on Tuesday. In the first ODI Afghanistan batted first, made 335/5 while Zimbabwe managed only 179 runs to lose the match by 154 runs. The second match saw Zimbabwe batting first totalling 333/5 while Afghanistan perished for 179 runs to also lose the match by 154 runs. Batsman Brendan Taylor set the team up for a big win with his first ODI century since his return from England and ninth in total courtesy of a whirlwind 125 off 121 deliveries. All-rounder Sikandar Raza weighed in with an entertaining 72-ball 92 falling just eight runs short of a century after opener Hamilton Masakadza had earlier laid a firm foundation for Zimbabwe’s total of 335/5 in 50 overs with 48 runs before he was run out. Not to be outdone by their batting counterparts the bowlers did exceptionally well with the ball, first the seamers combining to take the first two wickets without any help from any other member on the field. As early as the fourth over, Tendai Chatara had Afghanistan opener Ihsanullah Janat caught by Brian Vitori for two runs and six balls later Vitori this time had Mohammad Shahzad caught by Blessing Muzarabani for 15 runs. (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});