HARARE - Dynamos coach Lloyd Mutasa has welcomed the return to normalcy after senior players ended their 9-day sabbatical over unpaid wages and bonuses to finally report for training at Old Hararians Sports Club yesterday. The senior players, together with the youngsters and fringe players went through their paces at OH Sports Club giving the Harare giants the much-needed boost ahead of Sunday’s final of the ZNA Commander Charity Shield against bitter rivals Highlanders at the National Sports Stadium. Players such as Raphael Manuvire, Marvelous Mukumba, Emmanuel Mandiranga, Valentine Ndaba, Ocean Mushure, Obey Mwerahari all reported for duty and so did Cameroonian striker Christian Epoupa who has never missed a session during the nine-day strike by other seniors. Mutasa was happy with the turn of events and applauded the parties that broke the impasse although he bemoaned the amount of precious time lost in the furore. “We welcome them back and it’s business as usual. It’s quite a boost, you know you would want to have all your personnel around and probably choose a team from a better pool,” Mutasa told reporters after the team’s training session at OH yesterday. “I would want to applaud all the stakeholders that made things happen and we are happy as an institution that things have come back to normal…we move on and we hope we will try as much as we can to take it from there until the end of the season.” While the seasoned players played hide and seek sometimes reporting to the ground but not taking to the field, the youngsters selected to play in the ZNA Charities semi-final gave a good account of themselves by making it to the final following their 1-0 win over CAPS United at the National Sports Stadium last weekend. (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); This has brought about a different dimension that the technical department might not have envisaged this early into the New Year and will see some of the returning seniors warming the bench against Bosso. “…They have been away for some time as well so probably we will try to integrate those who might probably add a new dimension with the other guys who played in the semis,” Mutasa added. “If you end up having the whole lot who have not been training it might be a disadvantage so it’s a case of probably juggling around mixing those who have been training and those who might give us an edge though they were not training. “It has been a drawback, you go for nine days without training so obviously you lose out and you are starting all over again but such is the nature of the job, we have to abide by that and we have to move on. “We will try as much to try and push these guys but not to an extent of probably trying to cover up for that time lost in a few days between now and Sunday…but as we progress here and there we would be able to push ourselves and play catch-up.” Meanwhile, it has emerged that the players were only paid January salaries while the rest of the outstanding allowances have been agreed in principle with the executive that they will be honoured in due course. “We only received January salaries, we are being owed $200 winning bonuses times 11 months per player, $200 per month per each player for outstanding salaries and $70 times three games per each player as well,” a player confided with the Daily News yesterday. But on Wednesday Dynamos president Kenni Mubaiwa claimed to have settled all the outstanding dues the players were owed. “We had wanted to sack some of the big-headed players who are influencing the rest of the squad but the coach said we should not do that, so we paid them their dues and everyone is now expected to resume training,” Mubaiwa told the Daily News. “We know there’s section of players who are taking advice from those who want to see this project collapse; we will expose them when the right time comes. As for now, we have settled everything and we no longer owe anyone anything.”   