HARARE - Gate charges for the Commander ZNA Charities Shield dream final between Dynamos and Highlanders set for Sunday at the National Sports Stadium have been pegged at $3 for the rest of the ground with the most expensive ticket going for $10. The organisers of this tournament, the army’s biggest fundraising event in their quest to help the needy will see the VIP ticket going for $5 while the VVIP is pegged at $10 all tickets payable via point of sale, EcoCash and cash. In order to take the game to the people, fans will be ferried from four central points in Harare’s Central Business District namely; Copa-Cabana, Fourth Street and Town House. “There will be swipe, EcoCash and cash facilities at the gates for the convenience of football fans. Buses will ferry fans to the National Sports Stadium…from the…pick up points as from 0830hrs,” Alphios Makotore, army spokesperson said in a statement yesterday. “Entertainment for the match will be provided by the Zimbabwe Signals Band. The Commander ZNA’s Charities Soccer Shield is one of the major fundraising events lined up by the army in its quest to assist the needy. Other fundraising events for this year are the Charities Ball, the Baker’s Inn and Army Charities Dinner Dance and Golf Tournament and the Charity Horse Race.” En-route to the first part of the battle of Zimbabwe 2018, Harare giants Dynamos edged rivals CAPS United 1-0 at the giant National Sports Stadium last weekend courtesy of a Kudzanai Dhemere solitary strike.   Bosso on the other hand endured a 2-1 win rain-interrupted victory over Chicken Inn that was played across two venues — Barbourfields (BF) and Luveve Stadium in Bulawayo. Initially the match was stopped in the 55th minute on Sunday due to heavy rains and lightning at BF with the 10-man Gamecocks leading 0-1 courtesy of a Clemence Matawu’s fifth minute strike. Chicken Inn defender Devine Lunga was red-carded in the 27th minute following a foul on Highlanders’ Godknows Makaruse and upon resumption the following day, Bosso capitalised on a man advantage getting their goals through midfielder Adrian Silla and defender Peter Muduhwa to book a final berth against arch rivals Dynamos. DeMbare coach Lloyd Mutasa said he expects a tough outing against Highlanders tomorrow. “A Highlanders side is just as good as a CAPS United side when you play a battle of Zimbabwe, it’s no easy feat and we are expecting a good game, we expecting a battle. “If you look at how we played against them last season in the first game we won it in the boardroom after the game had ended in a one-all draw at Barbourfields,” Mutasa told reporters yesterday. “We came here (Harare) we played a draw again, we even played those few friendlies with the other youngsters from Bosso as well and some of those games ended in stalemates as well. “It’s going to be a tough game, a game that probably both institutions would like to come out victorious so it’s going to be a tough assignment but we hope as Dynamos we would always want to come out victorious.” The ZNA has five charitable organisations which are; Tsanga Lodge Convalescent Centre, Army Widows and Orphans Benevolent Fund, ZNA Benevolent Fund, ZNA Schools Welfare Trust Fund as well as the ZNA Patients Welfare Fund. (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); 