HARARE - The Daily News continues to grow in leaps and bounds — with the latest independent industry research statistics by the Zimbabwe All Media and Products Survey (Zamps) showing that the newspaper is the fastest growing in the country and the most widely read daily nationally. This is despite the fact that the newspaper only came back to the market in March 2011, nearly eight years after it was violently and unjustly shut down by the administration of former president Robert Mugabe for telling the Zimbabwean story like it is, without fear or favour. This effectively makes the Daily News in its current reincarnation the country’s youngest national daily newspaper. The ZAMPS stats show that the newspaper grew its share of the national readership cake for dailies from 14 percent to 20 percent between the first six months of 2017 and the last half of the year — thereby far outpacing its competitors. The government’s flagship daily, The Herald, did not register any readership growth during the period — while the NewsDay only grew its readership from 14 percent to 15 percent. The Daily News was also the only national daily that scored consistently highly across the country’s 10 provinces, and in both urban and rural areas — with its competitors only doing well in some regions, and not nationally. In terms of the sections that draw readers to its pages, the daily — the country’s most influential newspaper — scored highly in politics and local news, as well as in its reportage on regional news. Among the country’s print business offerings, the Financial Gazette continues to dominate the landscape with a whopping 39 percent of the current national business readership — compared with just nine percent for its major competitor, the Zimbabwe Independent. ZAMPS is a continuous local media study that is commissioned by the Zimbabwe Advertising Research Foundation (ZARF). Its main objective is to gather data on the consumption and usage of different media platforms and commercially produced products. It provides comprehensive information to stakeholders about the audience for all media — both electronic and print — and thus provides stakeholders with an industry-wide single trading currency for advertisers, advertising agencies and media owners for the buying and selling of media space. Commenting on ZAMPS’ latest survey, Hama Saburi, the Editor-in-Chief of Associated Newspapers of Zimbabwe (ANZ) — publishers of the Daily News, the Daily News on Sunday and the Weekend Post — said yesterday it was gratifying to note that the company’s newspapers continued to perform strongly at a time that the media industry was generally in flux both locally and globally. “It is the more pleasing that we are growing our readership in an era of rising media competition, technological disruption and abundant fake news. “In this regard, I would like to thank our loyal readers and advertisers for this continuing vote of confidence in our products and journalism. Kudos also go to all my editorial team colleagues who are the unsung heroes and heroines behind this strong showing,” Saburi said.
	
	




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});